Knowledge and innovation hold the key: Modi

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the strength of a nation was judged not only by its military and economic powers but also by its knowledge power. With the 21st century described as the ‘Century of Knowledge’, knowledge and innovation hold the key, he said.

After inaugurating the birth centenary celebration of late Shivarathri Rajendra Swamiji of Suttur Mutt and launching the work on a Knowledge Resource Centre here, the Prime Minister said the power of knowledge was identified much earlier by saints and mutts. The Knowledge Resource Centre (which will come up at Suttur, near Mysuru), for which the foundation stone was laid today, was one such step by the saints to spread knowledge in society, he said.

Mr. Modi, who was on his maiden visit to the city after becoming Prime Minister, said the world was changing fast and science and technology would play a major role in driving development.

He said efforts being made to spread knowledge were pivotal for the country to turn into a big knowledge power. The Suttur Mutt was backing these efforts through its initiative of the Knowledge Resource Centre, Mr. Modi said.

‘A fitting tribute’

“I think the mutt (Suttur Mutt) has paid a fitting tribute to the late saint (Shivarathri Rajendra Swamiji) by launching the project of Knowledge Resource Centre.” The Prime Minister said the government of India would back such efforts that help bring about innovations aimed at human development.

Lauding the contribution of Suttur Mutt, he said the mutt was imparting education to over a lakh students in its institutions. “Government’s work is being done by the sant (the head of the mutt)…,” he said.

Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Ananth Kumar, Governor Vajubai R. Vala, Shivakumar Swami of Siddaganga Mutt, Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt, former Chief Ministers B.S. Yeddyurappa and Jagadish Shettar, and Union Law Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda were among those present.


PM lauds Suttur Mutt’s contribution to imparting education to over

a lakh students